---
waltz:
  title: Syllabus
  resource: page
  published: true
---
## &icon-email;  Course Staff

  * Dr. Bart (Instructor) 
    * Office Hours: 
      * Wednesdays at 11:15-12pm in Smith 411 (First week on Zoom){: .inline_disabled})
      * Thursdays at 12:30-1:30pm in Smith 411 (First week on Zoom){: .inline_disabled})
    * Email: [acbart+cisc275@udel.edu](mailto:acbart+cisc275@udel.edu){: .inline_disabled}
    * Bio: Assistant Professor of Computer Science, studies Computer Science Education, built a number of web-based tools in his time.

## &icon-text-left;  Course Description

We're going to make software. Specifically, web applications.

We'll use TypeScript and React because those are hot and trendy.

The goal is to make things fun and educational. Let's all work together to achieve that goal!

## &icon-educators;  Learning Objectives

By the end of the course, students should be able to:

  * Design and develop complex software
  * Communicate and collaborate with a small team
  * Self-teach tools and methodologies as needed

In support of these primary objectives, learners will also be able to:

  * Follow an Agile Software Development methodology
  * Create interactive software using TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS
  * Use the React web development library with Hooks
  * Complete Code Reviews
  * Use Git Version Control Software following the Github Workflow
  * Manage a project using a Github Project Board
  * Deploy a website
  * Test a complex software project
  * Use a modern integrated development environment

## Technologies

You will be required to use the following tools and processes:

  * Programming Language: TypeScript/JavaScript
  * Other Languages: CSS, HTML, MarkDown
  * Core UI Library: React, Bootstrap
  * IDE: Visual Studio Code
  * Package Management: NPM
  * Bundler: Webpack
  * Testing Framework: Jest
  * Linter: ESLint
  * Version Control: Git
  * Software Design Methodology: Agile
  * Minimal Supported Browsers: Chrome 78
  * Site Hosting: Github Pages (others permitted)

You are expected to pick up new technologies as needed, relying on Google and other class resources in an ad-hoc
fashion. When you identify a gap in your knowledge, the burden is on you to learn what you need.

Discord will be used as a real-time chat platform. Verification, participation, and monitoring of the Discord will be
required. Although all critical course announcements will be posted to Canvas, the instructor will often use the Discord
to provide additional help and resources in the course. You are not required to have your real name or email rendered on
UD departmental Discord. Your behavior on the UD Departmental Discord server is a part of your behavior for this course,
and is governed by the other policies in this syllabus. For more information on the Discord, visit this page:
(redacted link)

Remote lectures will be on Zoom.

## Course Mechanics

The following policies cover core course mechanics.

### Class

All absences are automatically excused without requiring proof. If you are sick, then stay home and get better. Students
are responsible for making up missed assignments. Students must watch the course capture videos ("My Media" in left
toolbar).

**You must bring a laptop to class.** I request that you do not use your laptop during class unless directed to do so.
Research indicates that undirected technology use can have negative impacts on your learning AND your classmates'.
Still, we will try to dedicate lot's of class and lab time to working on your laptop.

### Tasks

The first third of the semester is organized around Learning Tasks that will teach you the basics of web application
development. Tasks are delivered as Git branches, providing new code and tests for you to build upon. Each time you
complete tasks, you merge your changes into a Github repository deployed through Github pages, making it easy to see
your progress through the tasks. By the end, you will have created a fully interactive web application demonstrating a
wide variety of skills.

Each task is necessary and dependent on prior tasks. You should not skip tasks (unless the instructor says otherwise).
Most tasks do not provide much partial credit - you are expected to complete ALL the parts of the task before you move
onto the next task.

Tasks are due the week they are assigned, so pay close attention to each task's due date to understand if you are on
track. However, tasks are not locked until a week before the start of the Final Project. The goal is to offer you
flexibility and opportunities to earn a perfect score on each task.

Everyone is responsible for every task, and must have their own repository. You ARE, however, allowed to COLLABORATE and
DISCUSS the tasks, being careful to not explicitly share solutions. Remember, your goal for this phase of the course is
to learn how to develop web applications - completing the tasks is merely the means to that end. You cannot pass the
course simply by completing all the tasks. If you cheat, then you're going to be hosed on the Final Project and you'll
just fail the course then.

In fact, failure to complete all the tasks may prevent you from participating in the Final Project, which would
seriously affect your final course grade.

### Final Project

The second phase of the course is a Final Project that will require you to work in a small team of peers on a large-
scale web application. The nature and requirements of this project will be explained when it is started in the second
third of the course. The current plan is for the entire class to work on the same general project, but with each team
working on their own version (although this plan could change).

The Final Project will be approach in weekly Sprints following an Agile methodology. Each week, the team will complete a
Sprint Review, which will be an opportunity to get feedback and guidance from the course staff. After Sprint 4, students
will be expected to deploy a "Minimal Viable Product", with the final version being due before Reading Day. Afterwards,
in lieu of a final exam, students will present a demo of their final working project.

### Out-of-class Meetings

You will be expected to meet with your teammates outside of class during the final project. It is up to your team to
decide whether these will be online via Zoom or in-person.

The Agile manifesto states that "Face-to-face conversation is the best form of communication (co-location)". Obviously,
email and other forms of electronic communication have their purpose, and may be necessary in theses times. But if
possible, we recommend co-location.

### Surveys

Surveys will be periodically administered to gauge what is working effectively and ineffectively in the class.

## &icon-rubric;  Grading

**Assignment Group** | **Contributes**  
---|---  
Tasks | 25%  
Sprint Events (5) | 25%  
Final Project MVP | 10%  
Final Project Final Version | 20%  
Surveys, Review, and other Activities | 20%  
  
## Collaboration

The Tasks require students to develop their individual skills so that they are prepared for the Final Project. However,
students are strongly encouraged to collaborate and learn from each other.

Do not share solutions without helping other folks to learn. Some amount of code sharing is necessary and appreciated,
but outright copy/pasting answers without building up understanding is cheating.

When possible, keep code sharing open and public. Avoid resorting to private direct messages and back channels when seeking help from peers. Instead of asking folks to DM you their code, you can request that they post a link to their GitHub repository. Ideally, everyone should benefit from questions asked in the Discord and in lecture/lab. This also allows the course staff to also weigh in and make sure peer advice is appropriate and accurate. Conversely, if you are uncomfortable with sharing your code publicly, consider using the private question feature of Sage.

The Final Project assignment requires students to work in teams. Part of your final grade comes from working effectively
in groups. We all have had bad groups; avoid being that person who ruins the team's experience.

### Demonstration of Competence

To ensure students are adequately prepared for the Final Project, the instructor reserves the right to administer ad-hoc
"Demonstrations of Competence" on an individual basis. These might take the form of an additional coding assignment, or
a verbal one-on-one assessment of topics. Failure to meet a minimum level of competency on any of the core course
objectives could lead to being blocked from working on the Final Project (and therefore, from earning a passing grade).

This will be used sparingly, because it's actually a lot of work and no one wants to do it. But if you mysteriously have
very large commits that are awfully similar to someone else's, or we find you posted on Cheggs, or some other suspicious
event happens, then we are totally prepared to do this.

To avoid any of this mess, just engage actively in working on the Tasks, seeking help regularly as needed, and making
sure you understand every line of code you end up writing.

### Respect

Because collaboration is so important in computing, communicating respectfully is essential. This includes any
interactions between the instructors, teaching assistants, and students. Whether in online discussion forums or in-class
peer interactions, the same rules apply. Abusive behavior will not be tolerated in any form, especially: Racism, sexism,
homophobia, transphobia. Students are expected to conduct themselves in an ethical, professional manner. Offering
criticism should be an opportunity to help others improve, not to take them down.

Please be excellent to each other.

### Cheating

You can assume that all assignments are collaborative unless they are specifically stated to be otherwise. However,
students may not avoid learning by cooperating to split up work. All assignments completed collaboratively should be
completed together, with all participants developing their own understanding and answers.

Other examples of cheating include, but are not limited to:

  * Copying the language, structure, code, ideas, and/or thoughts of someone else and presenting it as your own without proper citation
  * Making up data and results
  * Subverting automatic grading mechanisms or tracking software to achieve apparently incorrect results or falsify logs.
  * Submitting work that was previously submitted for credit in another course.
  * Submitting an instructor reference solution as your own.
  * Hiring someone to do your work for you.
  * Helping others to cheat, either intentionally or unintentionally.
  * Lying, either verbally or in writing, about the above.
  * Tampering with the linter, formatter, or other components of the CI/CD in order to avoid complying with course rules about code style and quality.

### Privacy

You are invited to share some online identities that you may wish to keep private (e.g., Steam account name, Minecraft
account name). You are never required to reveal this kind of information to the instructor or classmates.

However, you are obligated to share your GitHub ID (e.g., `acbart`) with the instructor and your classmates.

## Supplementary Materials

The following policies cover supplementary materials:

### Textbook

This course has no required textbook. The React Hooks TypeScript Tome is arguably not a textbook, but who cares because
it's free anyway.

## Errata

### Backups

Make sure to keep backups of all your work! Hardware failure or accidentally losing your code is not an allowable excuse
to be granted an extension. Use Git, commit often.

### Community Rules

I am very serious about everyone being cool with each other. Our community has the following code of conduct:

  * Be welcoming to everyone
  * Everyone has the same right to be here as you do.
  * Listen to understand
  * Let others participate too
  * No one is born knowing Computer Science
  * Be competitive with yourself, not others
  * Encourage experimentation and creativity
  * Empower people to solve their own problems
  * Demonstrate how much you can help, not how much you know
  * It's more than okay to ask for help
  * Ask questions; probably many others don't know either
  * Don't use acronyms or jargon without explaining it
  * Harassment is unwelcome or hostile behavior, and will not be tolerated

### Harassment and Discrimination

The University of Delaware works to promote an academic and work environment that is free from all forms of discrimination, including harassment. As a member of the community, your rights, resource and responsibilities are reflected in the non-discrimination and sexual misconduct policies.  Please familiarize yourself with these policies at [www.udel.edu/oei (Links to an external site.)](http://www.udel.edu/oei){: .external} . You can report any concerns to the University’s Office of Equity & Inclusion, at 305 Hullihen Hall, (302) 831-8063 or you can report anonymously through UD Police (302) 831-2222 or the EthicsPoint Compliance Hotline at [www1.udel.edu/compliance (Links to an external site.)](http://www1.udel.edu/compliance){: .external}. You can also report any violation of UD policy on harassment, discrimination, or abuse of any person at this site: [sites.udel.edu/sexualmisconduct/how-to-report/ (Links to an external site.)](http://sites.udel.edu/sexualmisconduct/how-to-report/){: .external}

### Faculty Statement on Disclosures of Instances of Sexual Misconduct

If, at any time during this course, I happen to be made aware that a student may have been the victim of sexual
misconduct (including sexual harassment, sexual violence, domestic/dating violence, or stalking), I am obligated by
federal law to inform the university’s Title IX Coordinator. The university needs to know information about such
incidents to, not only offer resources, but to ensure a safe campus environment. The Title IX Coordinator will decide if
the incident should be examined further. If such a situation is disclosed to me in class, in a paper assignment, or in
office hours, I promise to protect your privacy--I will not disclose the incident to anyone but the Title IX
Coordinator.

For more information on Sexual Misconduct policies, where to get help, and reporting information, please refer to[ www.udel.edu/sexualmisconduct (Links to an external site.)](http://www.udel.edu/sexualmisconduct){: .external}. At UD, we provide 24/7/365 crisis assistance and victim advocacy and counseling. Contact 302-831-1001 to get in touch with a sexual offense support advocate, as well as confidential and anonymous counseling services for other concerns.

### Accommodations for Students with Disabilities

Any student who thinks he/she may need an accommodation based on a disability should contact the Office of Disability Support Services (DSS) office as soon as possible. Students who have documentation of their need for accommodation should register via the SAM platform:[ andes.accessiblelearning.com/UDEL/ (Links to an external site.)](https://andes.accessiblelearning.com/UDEL/){: .external}. Reach DSS in the following ways:  

  * Phone: 302-831-4643, fax: 302-831-3261,
  * [DSS website (Links to an external site.)](https://sites.udel.edu/dss/){: .external}.
  * Email: [dssoffice@udel.edu](mailto:dssoffice@udel.edu) or visit at
  * 240 Academy Street, Alison Hall Suite 130.

During COVID-19, Disability Support Services staff are available remotely. Please call 302-831-4643 during business hours (8-5 M-F) or email [dssoffice@udel.edu](mailto:dssoffice@udel.edu)  for assistance. 

### Non-Discrimination

The University of Delaware does not discriminate against any person on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex,
gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, genetic information, marital status, disability, religion, age,
veteran status or any other characteristic protected by applicable law in its employment, educational programs and
activities, admissions policies, and scholarship and loan programs as required by Title IX of the Educational Amendments
of 1972, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, and other applicable statutes and University policies. The University of Delaware also
prohibits unlawful harassment including sexual harassment and sexual violence.

For inquiries or complaints related to non-discrimination policies, please contact: Office of Equity & Inclusion- [oei@udel.edu](mailto:oei@udel.edu), 305 Hullihen Hall Newark, DE 19716 (302) 831-8063

For complaints related to Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and/or the Americans with Disabilities Act, please contact: Office of Disability Support Services, [dssoffice@udel.edu](mailto:dssoffice@udel.edu), Alison Hall, Suite 130, Newark, DE 19716 (302) 831-4643 OR contact the [U.S. Department of Education - Office for Civil Rights](http://wdcrobcolp01.ed.gov/CFAPPS/OCR/contactus.cfm){: .external}

## Change Log

The changelog presented below reflects the dynamic nature of the course. The instructor reserves the right to make
changes as needed. When possible, this log will be updated in sync.

  * Version 0.0.1 (3:17pm at 8/18/2021): Initial version created
  * Version 0.0.2 (5:32am at 9/30/2021): Retrospectives renamed to "Sprint Review" to better reflect course terminology
  * Version 0.0.3 (12:40am at 10/12/2021): Renamed "Sprint Review" to "Sprint Events" to reflect that all the events are graded components of the course.
  * Version 0.0.4 (12:57am at 10/12/2021): Reweighted the MVP and Final Version submissions from 15/15 to 10/20, respectively.
  * Version 1.0.0 (4:11pm at 2/2/2022): Updates for Spring semester; replaced Portfolios be Tasks. Expanded cheating/collaboration section. Explicitly forbade tampering with the linter. Reweighted assignment groups.
  * Version 1.0.1 (1:24am at 2/5/2022): Removed a hyperlink for VS Code, and added a sentence about Zoom for some reason. Why should I explain Zoom? Do we not all know what Zoom is at this point?
  * Version 1.0.2 (12:05pm at 2/6/2022): Strengthened Discord section
  * Version 1.0.3 (2:44pm at 2/13/2022): Added a new paragraph to the Collaboration section clarifying that code sharing should be open and public.
  * Version 1.1.0 (3:05pm at 7/16/2022): Prepped for release to public!