---
waltz:
  title: Task 12 - Team Building
  resource: assignment
  url: https://udel.instructure.com/courses/1631620/assignments/9971872
  published: true
  settings:
    points_possible: 21.0
    grading_type: points
    submission:
      submission_types:
      - online_text_entry
      - online_url
      - online_upload
    timing:
      due_at: March 25 2022, 1159 PM
      unlock_at: March 21 2022, 0500 AM
      lock_at: March 25 2022, 1159 PM
    secrecy:
      anonymize_students: false
      anonymous_grading: false
---
Your first objective as a team is to create something that explains the concept of React Hooks (an "Explanatory").
Specifically, by the end of interacting with your Explanatory, learners will be more comfortable with explaining or
creating code that involves React Hooks. You are free to narrow your explanation to certain aspects of hooks (e.g., the
vocabulary surrounding hooks, how the re-rendering cycle works, how hooks work inside). There are many directions to
take this in, so feel free to think outside of the box.

The audience of your Explanatory is students taking CISC275 - imagine that this would be used instead of Dr. Bart's
lecture, or incorporated into the Tome, or otherwise provided at that point in the course.

Some example formats you could conceivably use:

  * Infographic
  * Recorded video
  * Interactive website
  * PowerPoint slides full of thoughtful diagrams and text
  * PowerPoint slides full of memes
  * Interpretative dance
  * Educational game
  * 20-page essay
  * 1-page essay
  * Animated gif
  * Viral Tik-tok Video

Making something creative, fun, and colorful is likely to catch people's attention, and make them more engaged. Having
clear, simple text makes things more approachable. Having interactive aspects often improves learning, especially if the
learner is given feedback. There are many ways to make an effective lesson. Think outside of the box!

### Grading

Our main goal here is to have you work together as a team to achieve something. Make sure you are making this a team
effort, and not just a solo one! Part of your grade for the assignment is about how well you worked as a group,
including an assessment by your teammates! Make sure you are listening to all the ideas of your team, and letting
everyone voice their ideas. Once the group has come to a consensus, make sure you work together to execute on the
vision.

You will also be graded based on active engagement and participation with the assignment, rather than strictly on the
quality of the final product. We want to see effort, even if your ambitious plans don't quite work. Focus on making a
"Minimal Viable Product" that shows off the idea, even if it doesn't have every feature you want.

### The Prize

Besides the grade attached to this assignment, there is an additional prize for the "Best" Explanatory (as voted by the course staff): Your team will be given a free Escape Room of your choice at [Axxiom Escape Rooms Newark](http://www.axxiomnewark.com/){: .inline_disabled}. 

### FAQ

**Are we allowed to make our Explanatory a...?**

The answer is probably yes, but run it by Dr. Bart if you are in doubt.

**We have a draft of a complicated Explanatory, do we actually have to make it?**

Technically, no. Since there is no restriction on the format of your Explanatory, a mockup or draft is a valid
submission. However, if group A submitted a hypothetical Explanatory, but group B submitted a fully-formed version of
that same idea, then it is likely that group B will get a higher rank than group A.

**My group wants to do X, but I think we should do Y. How do we decide?**

You'll have to talk it out. I won't accept two submissions from a group. You must reach an agreement as a group.
Remember, this is about learning to work together.

**Are you going to steal our Explanatory for the Tome, when we are done making it?**

Yes, that was my plan. If you get a really good idea that you think is marketable, probably better to submit something
else for the assignment instead.

**Is there anything off limits?**

This is still a class assignment. Nothing offensive, racist, transphobic, sexist, hateful, or otherwise violates our [Community Rules](https://udel.instructure.com/courses/1631620/pages/syllabus#community-rules){: .inline_disabled} or the [University's Code of Conduct](https://www1.udel.edu/stuguide/21-22/code.html){: .inline_disabled}. I better not end up having to talk to a Dean about your submission.

Also, no NFTs. That stuff is bad for the environment.

**When will we do our Escape Room? Which Escape Room would we do?**

That will be up to your group. You will decide which room and when, and I will schedule the room for you.

**Do we have to do the Escape Room if we don't win? I don't like Escape Rooms.**

No one has to do anything. I just thought it'd be fun.

**What if we fail to escape the Room?  
** I believe the usual procedure is that they lock you in the escape room forever. I wouldn't know, though, since I've
never lost an escape room. Certainly, you fail the course.

I'm joking no one is failing the course.